## PGDV 5200 Concept and Sketches

1. The title of this visualization is The Percent of Irish Households Using the Internet, 2016. In this visualization, we 
can explore questions about how widespread the use of personal computers and at-home Internet is in Ireland by county and/or electoral divisions. 
The quantitative dataset used to build this sketch was SDG 17.8.1, Proportion of Individuals Using the Internet, Electoral Division, 2016, Ireland, 
CSO & OSi. The data set seems to be in mostly good shape in terms of cleanliness at 3409 rows. There are a few odd values in one of the columns 
where there are two values separated by a forward slash to fit it into one column. I used a horizontal bar chart to visualize this data. There were 
quite a few categorical variables to choose from and I had a hard time deciding which ones to display and how to display them. In the end, I 
chose to focus on the broadest categorical level, with additional filtering for other categories, and the percent of households with a personal computer.

2. The title of this visualization is The Average Distance to Public Libraries by Electoral Division in Ireland, 2019. We can try to explore questions about availability and access to public libraries across Ireland’s electoral divisions. The quantitative dataset used in this sketch was Average Distance to a Public Library Branch at ED Level in Ireland 2019. This dataset is quite similar to the previously referenced Ireland dataset in Sketch 1. This set was also 3409 rows and saw similar instances of values in one column containing multiple forward slash separated values. There are also two object IDs listed in the raw data that do not align and it’s not clear whether they should be different from each other. I used a radial chart for this dataset to try something different than a bar chart and experiment with an uncommon visualization type. I had the thought that rings would be a more interesting way to view data. After further sketching it out and adding colors, I realized that a radial chart might not be the best option. The circles continue to grow as more categories are added and this makes it difficult to compare each ring to the other at a quick glance. If not a bar chart, then maybe a pie chart would have been more suitable here.

3. The title of this visualization is Grouped Proportions of Inhabited Homes Utilizing Improved Sanitation Systems, 2017. Some questions to explore with this visualization relate to adoption of an updated sanitation system in inhabited homes in Palestine. The quantitative dataset used was Proportion of inhabited houses using improved sanitation by Localities, 2017. This set had 619 rows and a few potential data cleanliness issues I noticed. There are some duplicates of location names in the dataset which I’m unclear on if that was intentional. Referencing the map visualization included with the data set, it seems like these localities should be uniquely represented. Another thing I noticed was the presence of blank rows of data – these rows had an ID and some other descriptive values but nothing related to percentages or locality information in the CSV. For this dataset, I chose to group it into 6 different percent of usage buckets before plotting it on a bar chart. There weren’t any higher level categorizations available in the dataset to roll up localities into that would make for less noisy visualization. I considered a table view, but with almost 600 unique localities that would be displayed in it I decided against that. A manually created grouping and a bar chart seemed like it would be one of the most digestible routes.
